# AUTOMATIC GENERATION OF ACTOR-BASED CODE FROM OPENMP WITH PGAS EXTENSIONS

While many software engineers trained in distributed computing may find it elegant to directly write code using the Actor-based programming interface, our compiler research can make the capabilities and superior performance of the Actor-based runtime accessible to a wider range of application developers who may be unfamiliar to the Actor interface and more comfortable with shared memory programming like OpenMP. Section 6 of the paper introduces our work on an OpenMP-based PGAS distributed programming model and compilation framework, with its primary focus on graph/irregular applications that are naturally expressed in a high-level language such as OpenMP C++ with PGAS extensions. Our input program is written with SPMD-style BSP programming model using synchronous PGAS primitives which, unlike message-passing primitives, are easily accessible to developers familiar with multicore parallelism. Given PGAS OpenMP code input, our compilation framework automatically converts it into an actor-based program with explicit asynchronous communications, and deliver high performance via automatic message aggregation and an efficient runtime system to execute active messages. Please refer to Section 6 of the paper for more details on the OpenMP-based PGAS programming model and compiler transformations.

This directory contains an automatically converted actor-based program from a PGAS OpenMP code input. It expresses the actor-based program using C++ lambdas to succinctly describe both the message and its processing function (message handler). It is important to note that all PGAS OpenMP to Actor-based code will be utilizing C++ lambdas due to their synergistic translation. Prior work in [1] introduced a source-to-source translator from lambda-based to class-based actor messaging, due to the increased performance of the class-based version. This translator has been verified to work with our automatically converted actor-based program and provides a functionally equivalent code with the same performance as that in the main proposed algorithm ([code](https://github.com/youssefelmougy/jaccard-selector/blob/main/Selector/hclib/modules/bale_actor/jaccard-selector/jaccard_kmer_selector.cpp)).
Analogous to the lambda-to-class translator, the PGASOpenMP-to-Actor translator only transforms the code regions of interest, i.e., those annotated with PGAS OpenMP directives while keeping other code as it is for better readability.

For more information on automatic generation of actor-based code from OpenMP with PGAS extensions as well as details on the OpenMP-based PGAS programming model and compiler transformations, please refer to section 6 of the paper.

For more information on lambda-based messaging and source-to-source translation, please refer to [1].

-----------------------------------------

[1] Paul, Sri Raj, Akihiro Hayashi, Kun Chen, Youssef Elmougy, and Vivek Sarkar. "A Fine-grained Asynchronous Bulk Synchronous parallelism model for PGAS applications." Journal of Computational Science (2023): p. 102014.
